Hello and welcome back.
We're going to start talking about implementing the Singleton and the first implementation technique
that I want to show you how to implement the singleton is referred to as the lazy innocent initialization
implementation.
This method implements a singleton pattern by creating instance in a global access method.
So let's go ahead and bring up ontology and show you how we can implement this pattern in a lazy initialization
manner.
We'll create a new project we're gonna name the specific to what we're trying to do.
So we're gonna name it Singleton lazy initialization implementation or Singleton implementation lazy.
Let's see let's say Singleton lazy initialization implementation.
How about Singleton lazy in association.
Yeah implementation I will just say.
Example Sean bit Singleton lazy initialization example
we're gonna go ahead and create a class named Singleton it's going to be a public class and what this
is going to do it's going to have some of the common common implementation of all the approaches.
The first being there's gonna be a private reference to the one and only instance so there's the private
reference to the one and only instance.
All right.
This is standard for all singletons we say private static and where you're using statics as well which
is quite often but we'll see how we can avoid it in other approaches.
But this is an instance to the Singleton itself.
We'll just call it unique instance
and we're going to initialize it to No.
And so that's our private reference.
We're also going to just had some other data attributes the Singleton which is quite common.
This is just an instance attribute remember variable.
All right we'll just say this private int data equals zero.
We then need to make our constructor private.
This is again common for all singletons.
It's a private constructor that just doesn't do anything because it's never gonna be invoked.
So we just do something like this.
This is the single constructor.
It's private.
No client can instantiate the Singleton object.
Very very important.
The next thing we need to do is we need to create the get instance method that's going to return our
unique unique instance.
If it had been created before or it's been instantiated if it hasn't.
So here we can make this public.
We have to make it static since we're going to refer to a static instance and we're going to return
a static singleton and we're gonna call it get instance.
And what this is going to do is it's going to return the unique instance if it's been created before
and if it hasn't it's going to instantiate it.
So what we have to do is we have to check if the unique instance is equal to now.
And if it's equal the null that means it has not been previously created.
So in this case we would instantiate it would say the unique instance I wish I could spell better and
actually I spelled it wrong up top.
So let's make sure our spelling is better unique
instance so unique instance is just going to be instantiated by calling a new one Singleton.
Right.
And we can call that new because we're in the class.
And even though it's private we're in the class we have access.
Otherwise if it's not null
we can then just return the unique instance
right.
Pretty straightforward and then below there we would probably have some setter methods for some set
data you something like that.
The other part now that we need to create it would be need to be the client.
So we're going to create a crass class called Test Singleton that's going to create the singleton
or use the singleton design pattern.
This is gonna have a static void made the main method
and what this is going to do is the first thing it's gonna do it's gonna get reference to the Singleton.
So we have to get a singleton reference.
So we're gonna say Singleton s we're not going to say new on it.
We want to be able to say we want it because it's private.
So what we have to do is it's a static method so we can just say Singleton that instance get instance
and that's going to return our Singleton.
So now s will be a singleton and now we can set some data.
The good thing about setting the data is will actually be able to test whether or not this is a singleton.
That's why he did that added the data attributes.
So yeah we're gonna set the data value in it probably at this point would be good to actually have a
set method.
So let's go ahead and add that set method here we're just going to say public void set.
Let's see.
Let's just call it set data and we'll take an integer my data something like that and all this is gonna
do is it's going to set data equal to my data.
Pretty straightforward setter.
Now when we go back to our client we can actually called set the data value so we'll just say ask that's
that data.
We'll just do some arbitrary number maybe fifty five and then we'll print out the actual reference information
so we can.
Again this is going to verify that our Singleton worked.
So we're going to print out the reference which is an s the s instance first references s and then we're
gonna print out the data value.
So we need to add a getter.
So now we also do our public int get data and this will just return our data member.
Erm so now we can say SDR get data.
Now we want to get another reference to the Singleton we want to make sure that it's the same reference.
Right.
So we're gonna reset the ethanol and then see if the Singleton works.
So we'll get another reference to the Singleton will set as back to normal to see if the get instance
is going to work.
And so we'll say S S equals Singleton dot get instance and then again we'll print it out and see if
the second reference has the same data values as the first reference.
So we'll call the math.
So print out the second reference and then go ahead and we'll test it to see if our Singleton worked
so build.
We're good to go.
We're gonna run and make sure we run our singleton class and not our main so going to say run and run
our test SINGLETON I'm sorry run test Singleton and so you'll see here the output is telling us that
we have a singleton the first reference is 3 4 9 8 and that's a wacky reference information it just
that's how you can see the instance of a class it has value fifty five and the second reference is also
3 4 9 8 with a value fifty five saw a singleton design implementation using lazy evaluation worked and
what makes this the lazy evaluation implementation is we're not instantiating it until we need to use
it till we need it by calling get instance.
So at this point let's go back to the slides and I'll show you some problems with this approach
so here we are in our slides.
What are some problems with the implementation that I just demonstrated.
So what's going on in the implementation in intelligence is that it's not thread safe.
So imagine if two calls to the gate instance are made at virtually the same time the first threat is
gonna check to see whether the instant six exists.
If it does not it goes into the part of the code that will create the first instance right because there
will be no harder before that has been done a second thread can come in and it looks to see whether
the instance a member is null and because the first right actually hasn't created yet because there
is that race condition.
The instance is still equal to null.
So the second threat is also going to go into the code that create the instance and that is a problem
because now you have two instances as opposed to the singleton.
You don't have a single instance anymore because there's that race condition during the check of whether
or not it's no and so both threads now perform a new on the Singleton object thereby creating two objects
that is a problem.
Now it may not be a problem if the singleton is absolutely stateless so if there is no member variables
inside there and you don't have any state data then the thread safety may not be an issue but if the
singleton and state like it did in our example.
If you expect that when one object changes the state if I change the data then all the other objects
should see the same change because we only have one instance of that object and in this case with the
thread safe.
Problem is you wouldn't see that you would see one object change the state data and then the other object
that you thought was a singleton didn't have that same data.
So the two threads will be interacting with different objects.
The first thread is that you're acting with a different object than all the other threads do.
That is a big problem because you don't have the Singleton inconsistent state between threads using
a different Singleton objects is the problem with this approach because of the thread issues.
If the object creates a connection there will actually be two connections so if you use a singleton
for a network approach you'd have two actual connections one for each object.
Again it can get very very problematic if O'Connor is used.
Then you'd have two counters you wouldn't have a single counter.
It may be also very difficult to find these rates condition problems because it is just by happenstance.
If you just happen to actually create those two instances in two separate threads at the same time so
dual creation is very intermittent.
It would be a very hard problem to recreate most of the time this is never gonna happen and when it
does happen it's not going to be obvious you're not going to know why counts are off you're not going
to know why you have two connections.
It's just gonna be very hard to debug so only one client should ever have one.
It's one instance of the singleton all the other clients may refer to another Singleton and that's gonna
be really tough to approach.
So in the next lecture I'm going to show you how you can at threat safety to this lazy initialization
approach.
Each subsequent lecture is going to improve upon the previous where eventually we get to the optimal
solution which is the bill Pugh solution.
Thank you.